Objectdetection_Deeplearning_ScaledYOLOv4
Object detection is an advanced form of image classification where a neural network predicts the objects in an image and points them out in the form of bounding boxes. Object detection thus refers to the detection and localization of objects in an image that belong to a predefined set of classes. Tasks like detection, recognition, or localization find widespread of applicability in real-world scenarios, making object detection (also referred as object recognition) a very important subdomain of Computer Vision which is characterized by its strong capability of feature learning and feature representation compared with the traditional object detection methods. Real time object detection and tracking are important and challenging tasks in many computer vision applications such as video surveillance, robot navigation and vehicle navigation. Object detection involves detecting the object in sequence of videos.

Every tracking mechanism requires object detection technique either in each frame or when an object appears newly on the video sequence. Object tracking is the process of locating an object or multiple objects using either static or dynamic camera. The availability of high-powered computers, high quality and inexpensive video cameras will increase need for automated video analysis. It has generated a great deal of interest in object detection and tracking algorithms. Even though high-powered computers are used for object detection and tracking algorithm, most of the object detection algorithms such as background subtraction, temporal difference, foreground extraction and simple differencing requires long time to detect object, requires more storage space and no robustness against illumination changes. Recently computer vision research has addressed the Multiple objects detection and tracking in dynamic environment.

AIM of this project: The project focuses on developing a model for detecting the objects in frame either it will be in image or video format, in order to resolve the issues occurred in previous ones such as image

OBJECTIVE: The range of object detection is sky rocketing on daily basis in everyday life. The intent of our project is developing a model to detect objects with fast processing, high accuracy and more learning capabilities. It can be achieved by implementing a deep learning algorithm named YOLO algorithm which stands for You Only Look Once. image

CAN BE APPLIED IN VARIOUS AREAS: autonomous traffic monitoring, Self-Driving Cars, Crowd Counting,
Video Surveillance, Anomaly detection, agricultural purposes.

THIS REPOSITORY RUNS ONLY IN GOOGLE COLAB DUE TO USUAGE OF COLABORATORY COMMANDS.
